
The materials in this and related files are distributed by the Center for
Computer Analysis of Texts (CCAT) at the University of Pennsylvania for
the use of students, teachers and scholars in study and education
contexts. They are not to be used, either directly or indirectly, for
commercial purposes without prior written consent of the various legal
authors, owners and developers identified in connection with each text. If
copies are made and given to other persons for NON-COMMERCIAL use, those
persons are also required to register with CCAT by completing the standard
"User Declaration" (included below) and returning it to CCAT at the
address indicated. This is for legal and collaborative purposes only; no
fees are involved. The CCAT repository contains a wide variety of
materials obtained from various sources and under various conditions of
distribution.  It is expected that, in accord with normal scholarly
etiquette, use of such materials in publications, etc., will be
acknowledged appropriately. 

                           **********************



2John 1
The elder unto the elect lady and her children, whom I love in the
truth; and not I only, but also all they that have known the truth;

2John 2
For the truth's sake, which dwelleth in us, and shall be with us for
ever.

2John 3
Grace be with you, mercy, and peace, from God the Father, and from
the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love.

2John 4
I rejoiced greatly that I found of thy children walking in truth, as
we have received a commandment from the Father.

2John 5
And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment
unto thee, but that which we had from the beginning, that we love one
another.

2John 6
And this is love, that we walk after his commandments. This is the
commandment, That, as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should
walk in it.

2John 7
For many deceivers are entered into the world, who confess not that
Jesus Christ is come in the flesh. This is a deceiver and an
antichrist.

2John 8
Look to yourselves, that we lose not those things which we have
wrought, but that we receive a full reward.

2John 9
Whosoever transgresseth, and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ,
hath not God. He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both
the Father and the Son.

2John 10
If there come any unto you, and bring not this doctrine, receive him
not into your house, neither bid him God speed:

2John 11
For he that biddeth him God speed is partaker of his evil deeds.

2John 12
Having many things to write unto you, I would not write with paper

and ink: but I trust to come unto you, and speak face to face, that
our joy may be full.

2John 13
The children of thy elect sister greet thee. Amen.
