
The materials in this and related files are distributed by the Center for
Computer Analysis of Texts (CCAT) at the University of Pennsylvania for
the use of students, teachers and scholars in study and education
contexts. They are not to be used, either directly or indirectly, for
commercial purposes without prior written consent of the various legal
authors, owners and developers identified in connection with each text. If
copies are made and given to other persons for NON-COMMERCIAL use, those
persons are also required to register with CCAT by completing the standard
"User Declaration" (included below) and returning it to CCAT at the
address indicated. This is for legal and collaborative purposes only; no
fees are involved. The CCAT repository contains a wide variety of
materials obtained from various sources and under various conditions of
distribution.  It is expected that, in accord with normal scholarly
etiquette, use of such materials in publications, etc., will be
acknowledged appropriately. 

                           **********************



3John 1
The elder unto the wellbeloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth.

3John 2
Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in
health, even as thy soul prospereth.

3John 3
For I rejoiced greatly, when the brethren came and testified of the
truth that is in thee, even as thou walkest in the truth.

3John 4
I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth.

3John 5
Beloved, thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the brethren,
and to strangers;

3John 6
Which have borne witness of thy charity before the church: whom if
thou bring forward on their journey after a godly sort, thou shalt do
well:

3John 7
Because that for his name's sake they went forth, taking nothing of
the Gentiles.

3John 8
We therefore ought to receive such, that we might be fellowhelpers to
the truth.

3John 9
I wrote unto the church: but Diotrephes, who loveth to have the
preeminence among them, receiveth us not.

3John 10
Wherefore, if I come, I will remember his deeds which he doeth,
prating against us with malicious words: and not content therewith,
neither doth he himself receive the brethren, and forbiddeth them
that would, and casteth them out of the church.

3John 11
Beloved, follow not that which is evil, but that which is good. He
that doeth good is of God: but he that doeth evil hath not seen God.

3John 12
Demetrius hath good report of all men, and of the truth itself: yea,
and we also bear record; and ye know that our record is true.

3John 13
I had many things to write, but I will not with ink and pen write

unto thee:

3John 14
But I trust I shall shortly see thee, and we shall speak face to
face. Peace be to thee. Our friends salute thee. Greet the friends by
name.
