
The materials in this and related files are distributed by the Center for
Computer Analysis of Texts (CCAT) at the University of Pennsylvania for
the use of students, teachers and scholars in study and education
contexts. They are not to be used, either directly or indirectly, for
commercial purposes without prior written consent of the various legal
authors, owners and developers identified in connection with each text. If
copies are made and given to other persons for NON-COMMERCIAL use, those
persons are also required to register with CCAT by completing the standard
"User Declaration" (included below) and returning it to CCAT at the
address indicated. This is for legal and collaborative purposes only; no
fees are involved. The CCAT repository contains a wide variety of
materials obtained from various sources and under various conditions of
distribution.  It is expected that, in accord with normal scholarly
etiquette, use of such materials in publications, etc., will be
acknowledged appropriately. 

                           **********************





Phlm 1
Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ, and Timothy our brother, unto
Philemon our dearly beloved, and fellowlabourer,

Phlm 2
And to our beloved Apphia, and Archippus our fellowsoldier, and to
the church in thy house:

Phlm 3
Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus
Christ.

Phlm 4
I thank my God, making mention of thee always in my prayers,

Phlm 5
Hearing of thy love and faith, which thou hast toward the Lord Jesus,
and toward all saints;

Phlm 6
That the communication of thy faith may become effectual by the
acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus.

Phlm 7
For we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because the bowels
of the saints are refreshed by thee, brother.

Phlm 8
Wherefore, though I might be much bold in Christ to enjoin thee that
which is convenient,

Phlm 9
Yet for love's sake I rather beseech thee, being such an one as Paul
the aged, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ.

Phlm 10
I beseech thee for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten in my bonds:

Phlm 11
Which in time past was to thee unprofitable, but now profitable to
thee and to me:

Phlm 12
Whom I have sent again: thou therefore receive him, that is, mine own
bowels:

Phlm 13
Whom I would have retained with me, that in thy stead he might have
ministered unto me in the bonds of the gospel:

Phlm 14
But without thy mind would I do nothing; that thy benefit should not
be as it were of necessity, but willingly.

Phlm 15
For perhaps he therefore departed for a season, that thou shouldest
receive him for ever;

Phlm 16
Not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved,
specially to me, but how much more unto thee, both in the flesh, and
in the Lord?

Phlm 17
If thou count me therefore a partner, receive him as myself.

Phlm 18
If he hath wronged thee, or oweth thee ought, put that on mine
account;

Phlm 19
I Paul have written it with mine own hand, I will repay it: albeit I
do not say to thee how thou owest unto me even thine own self
besides.

Phlm 20
Yea, brother, let me have joy of thee in the Lord: refresh my bowels
in the Lord.

Phlm 21
Having confidence in thy obedience I wrote unto thee, knowing that
thou wilt also do more than I say.

Phlm 22
But withal prepare me also a lodging: for I trust that through your
prayers I shall be given unto you.

Phlm 23
There salute thee Epaphras, my fellowprisoner in Christ Jesus;

Phlm 24
Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lucas, my fellowlabourers.

Phlm 25
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
