
The materials in this and related files are distributed by the Center for
Computer Analysis of Texts (CCAT) at the University of Pennsylvania for
the use of students, teachers and scholars in study and education
contexts. They are not to be used, either directly or indirectly, for
commercial purposes without prior written consent of the various legal
authors, owners and developers identified in connection with each text. If
copies are made and given to other persons for NON-COMMERCIAL use, those
persons are also required to register with CCAT by completing the standard
"User Declaration" (included below) and returning it to CCAT at the
address indicated. This is for legal and collaborative purposes only; no
fees are involved. The CCAT repository contains a wide variety of
materials obtained from various sources and under various conditions of
distribution.  It is expected that, in accord with normal scholarly
etiquette, use of such materials in publications, etc., will be
acknowledged appropriately. 

                           **********************



Obad 1
The vision of Obadiah. Thus saith the Lord GOD concerning Edom; We
have heard a rumour from the LORD, and an ambassador is sent among
the heathen, Arise ye, and let us rise up against her in battle.

Obad 2
Behold, I have made thee small among the heathen: thou art greatly
despised.

Obad 3
The pride of thine heart hath deceived thee, thou that dwellest in
the clefts of the rock, whose habitation is high; that saith in his
heart, Who shall bring me down to the ground?

Obad 4
Though thou exalt thyself as the eagle, and though thou set thy nest
among the stars, thence will I bring thee down, saith the LORD.

Obad 5
If thieves came to thee, if robbers by night, (how art thou cut off!)
would they not have stolen till they had enough? if the
grapegatherers came to thee, would they not leave some grapes?

Obad 6
How are the things of Esau searched out! how are his hidden things
sought up!

Obad 7
All the men of thy confederacy have brought thee even to the border:
the men that were at peace with thee have deceived thee, and
prevailed against thee; they that eat thy bread have laid a wound

under thee: there is none understanding in him.

Obad 8
Shall I not in that day, saith the LORD, even destroy the wise men
out of Edom, and understanding out of the mount of Esau?

Obad 9
And thy mighty men, O Teman, shall be dismayed, to the end that every
one of the mount of Esau may be cut off by slaughter.

Obad 10
For thy violence against thy brother Jacob shame shall cover thee,
and thou shalt be cut off for ever.

Obad 11
In the day that thou stoodest on the other side, in the day that the
strangers carried away captive his forces, and foreigners entered
into his gates, and cast lots upon Jerusalem, even thou wast as one
of them.

Obad 12
But thou shouldest not have looked on the day of thy brother in the
day that he became a stranger; neither shouldest thou have rejoiced
over the children of Judah in the day of their destruction; neither
shouldest thou have spoken proudly in the day of distress.

Obad 13
Thou shouldest not have entered into the gate of my people in the day
of their calamity; yea, thou shouldest not have looked on their
affliction in the day of their calamity, nor have laid hands on their
substance in the day of their calamity;

Obad 14
Neither shouldest thou have stood in the crossway, to cut off those
of his that did escape; neither shouldest thou have delivered up
those of his that did remain in the day of distress.

Obad 15
For the day of the LORD is near upon all the heathen: as thou hast
done, it shall be done unto thee: thy reward shall return upon thine
own head.

Obad 16
For as ye have drunk upon my holy mountain, so shall all the heathen
drink continually, yea, they shall drink, and they shall swallow
down, and they shall be as though they had not been.

Obad 17
But upon mount Zion shall be deliverance, and there shall be
holiness; and the house of Jacob shall possess their possessions.

Obad 18
And the house of Jacob shall be a fire, and the house of Joseph a
flame, and the house of Esau for stubble, and they shall kindle in
them, and devour them; and there shall not be any remaining of the
house of Esau; for the LORD hath spoken it.

Obad 19
And they of the south shall possess the mount of Esau; and they of
the plain the Philistines: and they shall possess the fields of
Ephraim, and the fields of Samaria: and Benjamin shall possess
Gilead.

Obad 20
And the captivity of this host of the children of Israel shall
possess that of the Canaanites, even unto Zarephath; and the
captivity of Jerusalem, which is in Sepharad, shall possess the
cities of the south.

Obad 21
And saviours shall come up on mount Zion to judge the mount of Esau;
and the kingdom shall be the LORD's.
